# Introduction

This project includes simulated and 'golden standard' datasets, software and scripts that we used to benchmark  error correction tools

###fTile : Comprehensive benchmarking of error correction methods for next generation sequencing via unique molecular identifiers

## Abstract:

Error correction is an important computational technique that promises to deliver highly accurate sequencing calls and improve results of the ‘next-generation’ sequencing (NGS) analysis. While errors in data sets are a concern for any HTS-based application, they mostly affect applications that use variants at frequencies similar to the frequencies of errors. Currently, a plethora of error correction methods based on different computational approaches is available. The choice of error correction method for users of NGS platforms is challenging, because we lack standardized comparison platforms and ‘gold standard’ benchmark data sets. For this reason, NGS-based applications cannot adopt today’s most accurate and efficient error correction techniques. In this paper, we provide the first comprehensive assessment of error-correction algorithms based on high-quality sequencing data derived from heterogeneous populations, on which are the most challenging to apply error correction methods. We use two case studies; one consists of a population of viral genomes, and the other consists of a population of T cell receptor clonotypes. Such heterogeneous populations of distinct, but closely related genomes, pose a serious challenge to error-correction algorithms due to the comparable level of artificial sequencing noise (errors) and true low-frequency genetic intra-population diversity. We used the UMI-based high-fidelity sequencing protocol (also known as safe-SeqS) to eliminate errors from the sequencing data. Using high fidelity reads obtained by the protocol and raw reads, our approach provides an accurate and robust baseline for performing realistic evaluation of error correction on sequenced genomes. Using the reads derived from a population of genomes, we seek to assess whether error correction affects the ability of a method to identify low frequency variants in viral and T cell populations. Assessment criteria used in the study allows the user to make an informed choice of the most suitable software for specific NGS projects. Scripts for computing the accuracy of error-corrected reads and the ‘gold standard’ data are publicly available at https://smangul1.github.io/ec/, allowing users to easily benchmark any new error-correction algorithm.  

